---
title: "Modelling drifting snow improves near-surface relative humidity and incoming longwave radiation simulations in Adélie Land with MAR"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2020-02-06-talk-1
venue: "Laboratoire des Sciences et du Climat (LSCE)"
date: 2020-02-06
location: "Saclay, France"
---

Estimating present and future Antarctica contribution to sea-level rise rely on a correct parameterization of the local physical processes involved in surface mass balance evolutions. As drifting snow is a very frequent phenomenon in East Antarctica, it is important to estimate and understand how it affects local climate. Drifting snow impact on near-surface temperature, humidity and incoming radiation is studied with the regional climate model MAR at D17 in Adelie Land between 2013 and 2018. Two simulations are performed and compared to each other: the first one with drifting snow, the second without. Models are then evaluated with in situ observations. Taking into account drifting snow in MAR improves 2 m relative humidity representation and allows to capture 2 m relative humidity seasonal cycle. 2 m temperature is not significantly affected, but simulations suggest that temperature modifications occur higher in the atmosphere where atmospheric sublimation is maximum. Simulated incoming longwave radiation increases (up to 72 W m-2) with snow mass flux and drifting snow layer depth. A similar but less intense behavior is simulated for incoming shortwave radiation. When drifting snow is simulated by MAR, incoming longwave radiation representation is improved (mean bias divided by a factor 1.9).
